Exercise 5
================

## Contagion - Simple vs.Â Complex

Contagion is the concept that certain traits (diseases etc.) can be
passed along through a large population, by individuals having
connections to other individuals, when the original individual has the
contagion.

The contagions can be divided into 2 groups: simple and complex.

Simple contagion is a scenario where you are only required to come into
contact, or be connected, with a single other individual that has the
contagion. In a network, if everyone is connected by one means or
another, they will be susceptible to the contagion, provided there are
no isolated communities.

In a complex contagion, a particular threshold must be reached in order
for the trait to spread throughout the population. This threshold can be
explained as the percentage of individuals connections in a network that
must be affected by this trait before it can spread throughout the
populations

## Complex Contagion for Diffusion of Behavior In Organizations

In an organizational setting, information or traits will usually spread
with complex diffusion. This can be positive or negative. For example,
if key information does not reach the correct individuals because of the
way information spreads, this would be negative. On the other hand if
toxic information dies away without spreading, the organization could
avoid a negative scenario. Additionally, if a group is very isolated, it
may be difficult to spread important information as information may be
diluted by extreme interconnections.

It is important to understand how information spreads in an organization
in order to have better control that can help direct certain behavior of
the group. This can be achieved by identifying and utilizing key
individuals at the beginning of the process, in order to ensure
thresholds are reached and desirable behavior is performed.

## Thresholds Model to Manage

Understanding what an organizations threshold is, and how it is reached,
is essential as this will allow for better control over what spreads.
For example, components can be mitigated to ensure an idea does not
spread through the organization, and similarly, concepts can be promoted
to ensure they reach the threshold and thus spread through the
organization.

In a real life context in an organization, this process could involve a
variety of actions. For example, in mitigating the spread of an idea, it
may involve transferring people to a particular department in order to
weaken or remove particular connections. It could also involve firing or
dismissing a person altogether. In a scenario where an idea is being
promoted in order to spread, this could again involve moving an
individual to a different department, this time with the opposite intent
of creating or promoting new connections in order to foster spreading.
It should be noted that this may not necessarily be an exact science,
and there are potential risks like an employee moving to a new
department and the idea spreading there, when the goal was to diffuse
the situation altogether.
